Update debian-ubuntu installation (#20875)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/installation/upgrading.md

+++
title = "Upgrade Grafana"
description = "Guide for upgrading Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "upgrade"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Upgrade Grafana"
identifier = "upgrading"
parent = "installation"
weight = 800
+++

# Upgrade Grafana

We recommend that you upgrade Grafana often to stay up to date with the latest fixes and enhancements.
In order make this a reality, Grafana upgrades are backward compatible and the upgrade process is simple and quick.

> Upgrading is generally always safe (between many minor and one major version) and dashboards and graphs will look the same. There can be minor breaking changes in some edge cases which are usually outlined in the [Release Notes](https://community.grafana.com/c/releases) and [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upgrading is generally safe (between many minor and one major version) and dashboards and graphs will look the same. There may be minor breaking changes in some edge cases, which are outlined in the [Release Notes](https://community.grafana.com/c/releases) and [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
```

> psql grafana < grafana_backup
```

### Ubuntu or Debian

> You upgrade Grafana by following the same procedure as when you installed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can upgrade Grafana by following the same procedure as when you installed it.
```

#### Upgrade Debian package

If you installed Grafana by downloading a Debian package (`.deb`), then you can execute the same `dpkg -i` command but with the new package. It will upgrade your Grafana installation.

Go to the [download page](https://grafana.com/grafana/download?platform=linux) for the latest download
links.

```bash
wget <debian package url>
sudo apt-get install -y adduser libfontconfig1
sudo dpkg -i grafana_<version>_amd64.deb
```

#### Upgrade from APT repository

> If you installed Grafana from our APT repository:

Reviewer: We should probably note here that if you use the APT repository then grafana will automatically be updated when you run `apt-get upgrade` to upgrade all system packages.

Author: Done

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install grafana
```

#### Upgrade from binary .tar file

> If you downloaded the binary .tar package, then you can just download and extract a new package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you downloaded the binary `.tar.gz` package, then you can just download and extract the new package
```

and overwrite all your existing files. However, this might overwrite your config changes. 

We recommend that you save your custom config changes in a file named `<grafana_install_dir>/conf/custom.ini`.

> This allows you to upgrade Grafana without risking losing your configuration changes.

Reviewer: Do we have this same recommendation in the install guide?

Reviewer 2: could be good to have

Author: If they are installing for the first time, then they won't have config changes to save. This is only relevant when upgrading Grafana.
